\section{Abstract}
% Problem statement
This thesis investigates the optimization of a magnet-sensor setup for reliable, accurate, and rapid joint angle measurement in Rolling Contact Joints (RCJs). The primary objective is to develop a system that balances simplicity with high precision.
The inherent high-DoF nature of RCJs renders conventional on-axis angle measurement methods overly complex and impractical. The relative motion between the two segments connected by the joint is guided by tendons. Although these tendons constrain the RCJ's movement, consistent contact between the two halves of the joint is not guaranteed. Therefore, a contactless angle measurement method is essential. This method must be robust, possess sufficient speed and resolution to capture human motion dynamics, be compact enough for integration within the joint, and be capable of measuring the absolute 3D angle rather than a relative one. 
Initially, a review of contactless angle measurement techniques identified Hall-effect sensors as a promising primary measurement modality for this application. Subsequently, synthetic data for various sensor-magnet setups were generated using the Python library Magpylib. This data served as the training set for simple neural networks developed for each setup. These networks were then systematically evaluated and compared. The simulation findings were subsequently validated through real-world experiments. Specifically, the best-performing and worst-performing single-sensor setups from the simulations were implemented in the physical joint and assessed for accuracy. The experimental results underscored the necessity of a highly variant magnetic field to maximize the extraction of positional information. The achieved RMSE in the simulation was 0.166 degrees and 1.33 in the real world experiment.
