With the small error in predicting the main motio , simple implementation and its cost-effectiveness, Hall-effect sensors could prove to be a viable method to approximate complex joint positions. With the created pipeline simulation of large variety of setups is possible. The real world validation also shows that the simulations can be used to evaluate possible setups without the need to implement them in the joint directly. With that being said, the simulation is far from perfect. It uses a lot of simplifications, mainly because of the lack of all of the metallic elements, which combined influence the shape of the field. The bending motion of the joint is also not perfectly modeled. In the real world a translation in z-direction is required to allow for the bending motion, otherwise the motion would be constrained in around 2-3 degrees. The position of the magnets in the real world can also not also not be 100% the same as the one in the simulation. Even small fluctuations in the sensor orientation leads to significant changes in behavior. The method of real-world data extraction is also not perfect. It relies on measurements done per hand and although measurements were done only at the specifically marked spaces (e.g. every 2.5 degrees), accuracy cannot be proven. This is also true in even larger degree for the training data. For creating as many entries as possible, measurements were done in steps of 1 degree instead of 2.5. The resulting measurements are probably inaccurate, with an error up to 1,5 degrees. The resulting measurements were then augmented with constant offset to improve the robustness of the model. This method is also not perfect, because the relationship between field strength and distance is $1/r^2$ in near and $1/r^3$ far field. Real noise is caused by translation, so including quadratic or cubic noise in the real data would be more accurate if reliable translation measurement is not possible. Translation was not present in the real experiment, as the cables were maximally tensioned. The material of the joint also plays major role. Any conducting material would change the magnetic field completely. This means that for applications, where the parts of the joint are metal, this method would be not applicable or at least need to be significantly altered.
With all of that being said, despite all the imperfections, this method can be used successfully in complex joints. The absolute error for the main movement is kept under 3 degrees throughout the whole range of motion of the experimental setup. Deeper neural networks or other prediction methods are needed for the more accurate prediction in the other degrees of freedom. With the small sample size, bending angles cannot be approximated and twisting angle approximation has a large error. 