\chapter{Introduction}
\section{Introduction to exoskeletons}
% Socio-economic background and the growing need for assistive devices
The rapid increase in the mean age of the global population presents a significant socio-economic challenge in modern society \cite{nagarajan_impact_2016}. A key aspect of this challenge is the potential for reduced independence among elderly and severely injured individuals. As the demographic shift towards an older population continues, evidenced by the rising number of people over 65 \cite{vereinte_nationen_leaving_2023}, the demand for effective mobility-assisting devices, such as canes, crutches, and wheelchairs, also increases.

% What is an exoskeleton
Exoskeletons represent an advanced class of assistive devices. These external structures are designed to provide support to the human musculoskeletal system and augment human strength or mobility by mimicking natural joint movements \cite{tijjani_survey_2022}.

% Advantages over other types of assisted devices
Compared to traditional assistive devices, exoskeletons can offer advantages such as enhanced user independence, hands-free operation, and significant potential in rehabilitation processes, including facilitating neuromuscular recovery \cite{federici_effectiveness_2015}.

\section{Background and motivation}
% Active exoskeletons and the need for sensor data for control and monitoring
Lower-Limb Exoskeletons (LLEs) typically involve controlling the hip, knee, and ankle joints. A significant challenge in LLE design is achieving accurate alignment with the user's anatomy throughout the entire range of motion. Exoskeleton designs based on simplified joint kinematic models often lead to misalignment, resulting in user discomfort, constrained movement, reduced efficiency, and potentially injury \cite{naf_misalignment_2018, young_state_2017}. Consequently, a rolling contact joint is being proposed for the knee joint of the LLE developed in KIT. Its six Degrees of Freedom (6-DoF) closely mimic the complex kinematics of the human knee joint, thereby reducing the risk of misalignment \cite{beil_rolling_2019}. Acquiring accurate real-time data for the joint position is crucial for the closed-loop control and monitoring of such advanced joints. With the many advantages it provides, the joint is very difficult to actuate and to estimate its position. This goal of this thesis is to develop a method to estimate the position of the RCJ.  Due to the complex kinematics and lack of rigid connection between the two joint parts, conventional angle measurement methods such as potentiometers and goniometers are limiting and would require complex mechanisms to allow them to capture movement in more than one DoF. Using contactless measurement method is required for this use case. Different contactless angle measurement methods were looked into in Chapter \nameref{chap:related work}. Then the fundamental understanding of physical and mathematical concept is introduced in Chapter \nameref{chap:fundamentals} to aid with the comprehensive understanding of the topic. The methodology for developement of the measurement method is described in Chapter \nameref{chap:methodology} and the results of it were presented and analyzed in Chapter \nameref{chap:results}.

